# CSS385 One Pager: Media Management

My game is a 3D physics-based puzzle game, similar in genre and design to Portal. Media in 3D puzzle games generally takes one of five forms: ambiance, triggered sounds, level animations, tutorial videos, and cut-scenes. Ambiance usually takes the form of background music or sounds like crashing waves or whirring noises. This usually makes the level feel more immersive as well as providing a mechanism where levels can indicate key areas or interactables. Triggered sounds are the counterpart to ambiance. They provide an audio cue that something has happened in the level and that the player should pay attention to it. When triggered by a player, it provides feedback to the player that their action was successful. Level animations begin moving into “movie” territory but are still a part of the level itself. Level animations allow the level to be dynamic, changing either in response to the player or on its own. Tutorial videos are full videos playing in the level, but can be integrated into a level in a non-intrusive way, such as videos on walls that the player can ignore. Tutorial videos are usually used to show various game mechanics that might not otherwise be obvious. Finally, cut-scenes are the most intrusive form of media in that they take control of the camera away from the player. This is usually done to show the player something they would not normally be able to see, such as a part of the level not visible from the player’s current position or a pre-rendered level animation.

There are generally two approaches to integrating these kinds of media into a game: built-in and asset-driven. Integrated media is media built into the game. Examples of built-in media include procedural sounds, hard-coded animations, and in-engine videos and cutscenes. Built-in media is useful because it can make use of engine features such as camera effects, vr, or interactivity. Built-in media is also harder to steal and loads instantly, as it is usually hard-coded into the game itself. However, built-in media has some major drawbacks, specifically, due to its more-integrated nature it can be rather tedious to create large amounts of, and harder to modify, both by the game’s creators and by players. The other approach to media integration, asset-driven media, has its own advantages and disadvantages. Asset-driven media allows for rapid creation and prototyping, while also being more modular and easier for players to modify. However, asset-driven media is usually less able to make use of an engine’s features, can be easily stolen if not tightly bundled, and usually incur a cost of load times or loading screens.

In my game, I intend to use an asset-driven approach to media integration. My game is already built toward as many components being assets as possible and asset-driven media works well with this precedent. Furthermore, the draws of modularity, rapid-prototyping, and player-modifiability are significant for the kind of game I am trying to create. However, this means that I will likely have to invest time into developing the game’s asset system around media like this. This includes creating an animation format and loader that works well with the game’s level format. Furthermore, the game engine I am using does not include built-in support for playing video files, so I will need to find libraries able to load them and write the glue needed to play them in my game engine. However, I believe that the benefit of asset-driven media is worth the cost.
